We had a look at the box model basics with padding, a border and a margin and all these things are of
course optional.
You can get a padding and a margin without a border,
you can have a border without a padding and margin, so that's all totally optional
and it leads to that result.
Now I mentioned there would be a couple of special things,
now let's dive into these special things step-by-step.
The first special thing can be seen if you inspect the section.
There is some whitespace to the left and to the right, so after the orange margin, this is coming from
the body actually.
If you hover over the body, you can see the body also has a default margin, here
the 8 pixels,
that is simply coming from the browser defaults here.
So what we can do to help prevent this and to make sure that our elements go directly into the edges
of our page,
we can set that margin to zero with that margin zero command.
If we do that and we reload the page, you see now the body has no longer a margin
and therefore if we inspect the section, you indeed see the orange area around it,
so its margin directly connects to the edges of the page which means there is no additional space in
between.
So that was the first special thing, that the body has a margin. Another special thing can be seen if we inspect
the h1 tag in our second section, in the plans section.
You see, this has a margin to the top and bottom, the default margin every h1 element has, we can
see here, it's orange.
Now the interesting thing is if we also inspect the section above it,
so the product overview section,
do you see that orange margin at the bottom of it?
Keep in mind where it was.
If I go back to the h1 tag, it overlaps with that section from the product overview container.
This behavior is called margin collapsing,
it simply means the following,
if you got two elements block element with its box model, the margin is the orange part here,
if you got two elements next to each other, then margins between them are actually collapsed to one margin,
the bigger margin wins.
This is not a bug,
this is on purpose.
This is there or this is enforced by CSS to ensure that you don't get two big distances between the
elements.
Now you could argue, hey leave that up to me,
I'll take care of that
but that's simply not how CSS works,
so it is something to be aware of. To work around this,
it's a good practice to use either margin top or margin bottom unless you don't worry about this
collapsing occurring which of course also can be the case.
So in our case, we got some collapsing, it's not really a problem because we've got a fine distance
between the elements,
I just want to highlight it here so that you don't wonder what's going on here.